---
title: E-commerce for Economic Development
date: "2020-11-25T12:12:11.120Z"
description: "The future of community-based small business development."
tag: "Public Policy"
---

During the three years I lived in Chicago, I spent a lot of time thinking about the relationship between entrepreneurship and economic development. At the Metropolitan Planning Council, I helped facilitate <a href="www.metroplanning.org/woodlawn">a series of public meetings</a> in the South Side’s Woodlawn neighborhood to identify community economic development priorities. We also collaborated with dozens of government, business and community partners to coordinate on solutions to address <a href="https://www.metroplanning.org/work/project/33">deep-rooted and immensely costly</a> racial injustice. Time and again, investing in entrepreneurship in chronically disinvested communities featured as a key engine for equitable growth.

Problem is, the types of entrepreneurship we were focusing on isn’t fully representative of where a momentum or opportunity lies. From <a href="https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/comm_planning/nsp">CDBG</a> to Elevated Chicago’s own focus on <a href="https://afternormal.substack.com/elevatedchicago.org">equitable transit-oriented development</a>, economic development programs are heavily biased towards traditional brick-and-mortar businesses. These businesses are immensely vital to sustainable growth in every neighborhood and 100% deserving of support. However, I also believe that our advocacy community needs to develop capacity to support 21st century entrepreneurship and the makers who are leveraging the power of the internet to build the next Warby Parker out of a three-flat in Chatham.

For many, e-commerce is a perfect entry point into entrepreneurship. Anyone who can succeed opening up a café or clothing store can learn the ropes, even if they’re not programmers. Amazon, Shopify and numerous other platforms enable entrepreneurs to launch their business without building a digital shop from scratch. Even better, startup costs are lower and there’s no five-year lease to carry around or storefront to remodel, which reduces risk both for the entrepreneur and their investors. The ability to access markets outside one’s neighborhood is key when it comes to building wealth in neighborhoods with few customers, declining population and high vacancy rates.

Over the past few years, I’ve heard tremendous stories that highlight the energy that is growing in overlooked Black and Brown communities, just waiting to be tapped into. The Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation’s <a href="https://southsidepitch.com/">South Side Pitch</a>, which provides opportunities for Chicago South Side founders to pitch their ventures investors, has been wildly popular and regularly features some of the most innovative startups I’ve seen solving problems that are frequently overlooked by the tech establishment.

What’s needed more than ever is investment and community to continue the momentum of events like these and funnel more financial and social capital into the hands of these entrepreneurs. It is vital that we come to a greater understanding where and how to best source public funds and put capital to work in disinvested communities. Luckily, building the infrastructure to achieve these goals is not unlike what local policymakers, activists and economic development agencies already do. We in the e-commerce and tech communities should seek to be partners and catalysts for this kind of change.